Welcome back everyone and welcome to this lecture on Pandurs visualisations Panas has amazing visualization
capabilities.
And if you set your data frame right you can pretty much create almost any visualization of a single
line of code.
Let's go ahead and show you some examples.
All right here I am at this notebook and I'm going to go out and say important PI and P are going to
import pandas as PD and then I'm also going to specify plot lib in line so I can see that data visualizations
inside of the actual notebook and then the CSP files are going to upload are the ones I want to say.
PD Reed cxxviii pasand DBF one.
And for if one also going to specify that the index be the first column at index 0.
So now if I look at the one I can see that the index is actually a time series and that's going to be
important when we actually visualize that out.
And then for a non-time series index and going it say PD read cxxviii and then pass and just to that
are for Take a look at the two said.
Very similar except this is just read data and it has a sequential index.
All right.
Let me go ahead and just show you a quick example of what you can do with these sort of data frames
in these columns.
Imagine we wanted to get a histogram of all the values in the A column for data one well pandas can
actually do that.
Rectally we can just call the EF 1 and then call hissed off of this and it will actually automatically
start creating a histogram and note that it's actually calling that live under the hood.
And you can begin to add in that plot lib arguments or even see more style arguments like the number
of bins you want in this histogram.
OK.
Now something to note is this style actually isn't very good looking.
In my opinion.
So what you can do in order to fix that is if you come up to the top or really anywhere in the notebook
go ahead and say import Seaborn as asinus.
And once that's imported If you start running these cells again it will look like a seaborne plot.
Now look a little nicer.
So it's something I like to do.
You can actually see turnstyles and the panderers calls will look like them pandas has several plot
types built into it and we're going to do just briefly go and show examples of how to create these plots.
Pretty much all the plots can be done through a command off of the data frame and you can basically
do this with two methods you can call the data frame itself or call a column off the data frame.
Let's go in and just do a column now and you can call plots and then under the arguments of plot specific
kind and there is a list in your notebook.
And we're going to go through out this list and then you specify the key word of the kind.
So if I wanted a histogram I could also create it this way.
And then here you can add an histogram arguments such as the number of minutes you want.
So that's one method of creating For example a histogram off of a data frame column called dot plot
and then call kind.
All right the other way you can call a plot using pandas is instead of specifying kind equals hissed
you can actually call hist directly off of plot so you can say dot plot and then hist and this will
also create the plot.
This is the method we're going to be using throughout the rest of this lecture so we either grab the
entire data frame or the column called dot plot and then call dot whatever the plot type we want.
Let's go ahead and just go through all the plot types and check them out.
So let's go ahead and work with these two which is the non-time series.
So as an example it just has a normal index and one plot you can do is an area plot so you can go in
and specify plot that area and it is essentially just going to show an area plot and what you can also
do is specify Alpha as an argument here.
If you want some more transparency so you can say Alfas equal to 0.4.
And this shows some transparency here and this is just showing the area of the values.
You can essentially just think of this as a normal line plot except the area underneath it has been
filled in with some sort of color.
All right that's an area of plot.
And again very easy to call off the data frame.
Let's go ahead and take a look at Bart plot's so you can say Hasen you're a data frame to plot and then
bar.
And so automatically create a bar plot.
And what this does is it just takes the index value basically as a category.
So in this case your index should be categorical.
Our data frame is actually small enough so this makes sense if we take a look at the data frame it only
has 0.39.
So this works.
A typical data frame with a sequential index you probably would want to do this.
But if it's a categorical index then as a category they'll just list the values per each column.
Then you can actually also create this to be stacked by passing in stacked equals true and you'll get
a plot that looks like this basically the exact same thing it's set except at stacking the values.
Personally I would actually recommend that ease see more and for these types of plots.
But if you just doing some very quick analysis this sort of thing is going to work for you.
Just calling it off a pandas now it's call histogram.
Just to clarify what it looks like again.
So going to call say if one a dot plot just we've seen this before.
And here's our histogram and you can specify the number of bins you want.
So if you want a larger number of bins in order to get a little more clarity as far as Panthers plots
go and doing stuff that's built into Pandurs histograms are probably the one to use the most.
You can also do line plot's which is another common one that I like to use for Pandurs.
For example if we check out the IF one.
Remember that's our time series index.
Let's imagine that we wanted to plot the data of one of these time series.
Can Go ahead just say día one plot and then call line.
This is just going to create a line plot and for the line plot you have to specify the X and the Y.
So in this case I want the X to be my actual index so I can say if one index and I want my y to be one
of these columns then you pass and the column is a string.
So I want to go and just pass it.
Let's say be.
And if I just run this I get a plot that looks something like this generally just a line plot.
So you can imagine if this was stock information and you wanted to plot it out versus time you can get
something that looks like this.
And this is all built off of that plot lib.
You can begin adding map plot lib arguments such as the size you want.
So you want something much wider.
You can do something like this.
Or let's say I wanted to adjust the line with.
Well you can just do LW just like we saw for about plotting.
And so the line with to something a little skinnier you can get in markers.
All these other map plotless commands.
So everything you learn about MAP plot live can be applicable to these data frame plots.
Now let's go ahead and check out scatterplot So let's say I have one I can say plot scatter and you're
going to have to specify an x and y.
So for this let's just go ahead and pass the streams of column names.
So a b and this will create a nice looking scatterplot for us.
Something else you can do is actually set the color based off in another column.
So for instance you can say see the color is going to be equal off column C.
So if I just read that it gets me a black and white.
So if I take a look at the if one just clarify what we're doing here the different one we have a value
for A and B and we have a value for c..
So essentially we're showing now three levels of information.
Three dimensional plot if you will.
Since we have A versus B and then a third argument see displayed by color.
Now you can actually pasan see math as an arguments and passing your own color map.
So for instance cool warm which you've seen before and now you're showing three levels of information
A versus B where they stand.
And then the color value for c..
Sometimes people don't like to show things by color but prefer to show them by size.
You can actually do that as well instead of passing C as an argument here.
You'll just go ahead and pass it.
S and for s You'll go ahead and pass in a data frame column.
So for this you have to actually passen the data frame column itself and you probably just do this.
The point will be too small.
And what you can do is multiply this by some sort of factor so you can see the points are a versus B
and the size indicates how much larger value was relative to each other.
All right but this is the kind of thing where you probably wouldn't remember this off the top of your
head you would go back to Jupiter a notebook that I have assembled for you and use that as a reference
or check out the documentation.
Let's go ahead and move on to box plots again.
I really like see more box plots but if you just want a quick analysis of a box plot pandas can do that
for you as well to just pass on your whole data frame call plot call box and you can see a box plot
that's basically automatically for you per column.
So it just takes every column as a category and then plots the distributions for you as a box plot.
All right.
For by various data you can do a hexagonal plot which you'd actually seen before with panderers excuse
me with Seaborn.
But let me go and make a new data frame for this to actually show up correctly.
So I want to say PD data frame going to pass in some random data Rande then and I'm going to have this
be 1000 by let's say two and then I'm going to pass in the columns to be just a and b
and if we take a look at our data frame looks something like this.
Just some random data.
A freebie.
I just wanted some more random points here and what I can do since this is by variant are two variables
here.
And B I can say plot Hexton and x is equal to a mass and Y is equal to B.
And if you just do this you will get a hex plot.
Now this is essentially like a scatterplot except it's the hexagonal bins.
Right now the bin size is really quite small.
So to change that we can say grid size is equal to 25.
And this will enlarge the size of the hexagons and essentially the hexagons get darker as there's more
points inside of them and you can also change the color mapping here and say See map is equal to something
else.
For instance if we wanted cool Warum to be our color mapping you could do that as well.
And then finally we can do kernel density estimation plots.
So if for some reason you don't just want a histogram but you want kernel density estimation you can
call your data frame or a column off your data frame and then the save plot KDE in it will create this
kernel density estimation plot for you and you can do the same thing with density which is another call
you can make.
So in say density and that will be the same thing.
So if you want density or kernel density estimation plot those will be the same thing and you can actually
do this off the entire data frame as well.
You don't have to do it just off of one column if you wanted to compare the density it kernel density
estimation plot of all the columns in your data frame I hope you found this useful and I will see you
at the next lecture or we're going to describe the quick exercise for you to practice what we just learned
here.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.